[Music]
just five miles from the village they
head into big trouble
[Music]
donkeys have been bred to be docile and
they have no instinct of how to escape
no animal has a concept of restraint
predators least of all
these last 45 minutes could be their
undoing and it puts flip in a really
awkward position he doesn't want the
Cubs killed but keeps to his promise to
inform the village these two young lions
are very important to to your
Conservancy
but if lions kill any of your livestock
you know you can shoot them if they
cause problems shame and it is not for
me to say or ask for you not to shoot
them that's your decision and all I'm
saying to you is before people shoot
them if they kill livestock you've got
to think very carefully
those two lions were born here they are
used to this area and that's very
valuable
the lands have a lucky break since the
donkey's were living wild the community
decides to believe it this time
in the Serengeti youngsters spend years
watching how older lionesses tackle
large prey however it looks as though
these Cubs will have to teach themselves
through trial and error they begin the
stalk like seasoned hunters using the
scant cover to conceal themselves and
they have to be incredibly quiet Oryx
are spooked by the slightest sound
one of the youngsters looks as though
it's made a mistake
it's broken cover actually very cleverly
it's pushing Lorex towards the other
line an Oryx is quite capable of seeing
off alarm as long as the antelope sense
its ground and doesn't run but will the
Oryx keep its nerve
finally the youngsters lose heart lions
will normally avoid hunting in such heat
but they're also opportunists
the Lions will need to bring him down
quickly before they overheat
[Music]
even away from the herd a bull is a
formidable opponent
it could Gore and kill a lion
[Music]
[Applause]
close to overheating they finally
succeed in bringing him to the ground
[Music]
but the massive ball is not giving up
against the odds and the full weight of
the lands he regains his feet
and it is now that the tables turn
the lions are exhausted after a
20-minute struggle only the ball has the
energy to finish the fight
[Music]
in such exposed and extreme conditions
the challenge for predators and their
prey is at its most intense rock
climbing may not be his forte but he's
learnt that persistence pays Cobra one
of the deadliest threats Elan cub could
ever face fortunately the Cubs curiosity
is tempered by an innate caution
faced by a threat the prize joined
forces their first concern is to corral
the Cubs their enemy carries a concealed
weapon
spits the poison jets from hypodermic
fangs the Lions are lucky one drop in
the eye would blind them for life with
the spitting cobra
at large the Cubs are at risk holding
them by the scruff of the neck stops
from struggling as they're carried to
safety danger is never far away
elephants actively seek out the only
predator that kills their calves
revenge is sweet and Cubs are an easy
target
the lioness is powerless to reach her
cubs so now they're on their own their
first instinct is to hide but even an
adult LAN needs to know when to run
[Music]
their mother attempts a rescue but again
the elephant's drive a wedge between her
and her cubs
faced by overwhelming force her only
choice is retreat if she was wounded her
Cubs would die it's best she hides and
finds them later her young may have
escaped but without their mother the
clock is ticking because of the many
dangers more than half of all Cubs die
in their first year
[Music]
as they mature young males begin to
explore the boundaries of the prides
territory red has ventured out alone and
London straight into the middle of the
hyena clan
[Music]
he's trapped by over 20 of them tries to
wear him down this number of hyenas
could kill him
[Music]
it's impossible to fight this Ally
tattoo has heard the commotion
[Music]
now the odds have changed
even for 20 hyenas a pair of melons is
too much to take on reg is lucky
[Music]